[Music] inside a nondescript building in the
heart of San Francisco one of the world's
buzziest startups is making our ai-powered
future feel more real than ever before they're
behind two monster Hits chat gbt and Dolly
and somehow beat the biggest Tech Giants to
Market kicking off a competitive race that's
forced them all to show us what they've got
but how did this under the radar startup pull
it off we're inside open AI and we're going
to get some answers is it magic is it just
algorithms is it going to save us or destroy
us let's go find out
I love the plants it feels so alive so amazing
it's giving me very Westworld Spa Vibes it's
almost like suspended in space and time a
little bit yeah it has a little bit of futuristic
feel this is one of the most introspective
Minds at open AI we all know Sam Altman the
CEO but Mira Murati is a Chief Architect behind
open ai's strategy this looks like the uh
open AI logo it is Ilya actually painted this
earlier the chief scientist yes what is the
flower meant to symbolize my guess is that
it's AI that loves Humanity we're very focused
on dealing with the challenges of hallucination
truthfulness reliability alignment of these
models has anyone left because they're like
you know what I disagree there have been over
time people that left to start other organizations
because of disagreements on the strategy around
deployment and how do you find common ground
when disagreements do arise you know you want
to be able to have this constant dialogue
and figure out how to systematize these concerns
what is the job of a CTR It's a combination
of guiding the teams on the ground thinking
about longer term strategy figuring out our
gaps and making sure that the teams are well
supported to succeed yeah sounds like a big
job solving impossible problems solving impossible
problems so when you were making the decision
about releasing chat GPT into the wild I'm
sure there was like a go or no-go moment take
me back to that day we um headshot GPT for
a while and we sort of hit a point where we
could really benefit from having more feedback
from how people are using it what are the
risks what are the limitations um and learn
more about this technology that we have created
and start bringing it in the public Consciousness
it became the fastest growing tech product
in history I did did that surprise you I mean
what was your reaction to the world's reaction
we were surprised by how much it captured
the imaginations of the general public and
how much people just loved spending time talking
to this AI system and interacting with it
can now mimic a human it can write it can
code at the most basic level how does this
all happen is a neural network that has been
trained on a huge amount of data on a massive
supercomputer and the goal during this training
process was to predict the next word in a
sentence and it turns out that as you train
larger and larger models add more and more
data the capabilities of these models also
increase they become more powerful more helpful
and as you invest more on alignment and safety
they become more reliable and safe over time
openai is kind of turbocharged this competitive
Frenzy um do you think you can beat Google
at its own game do you think you can take
significant market share and search we didn't
set out to dominate search what church GPD
offers is a different way to understand information
and you could be you know searching but you're
searching in a much more intuitive way versus
keyword based I think the whole world is sort
of now moving in this direction the air of
confidence obviously that chat tpd sometimes
delivers an answer with why not just sometimes
say I don't know the goal is not to predict
the next word reliably or safely when you
have such General capabilities it's very difficult
to handle some of the limitations such as
what is correct some of these texts and some
of the data is biased some of it may be incorrect
isn't this going to accelerate the misinformation
problem I mean we haven't been able to crack
it on social media for like a couple of decades
misinformation is a really complex heart problem
right now one of the things that I'm most
worried about is um the ability of models
like gbd4 to make up things we refer to this
as hallucinations so they will convincingly
make up things and it requires you know being
aware and just really knowing that you cannot
fully blindly rely on what the technology
is providing as an output I want to talk about
this term hallucination because it's a very
human term why use such a human term for basically
an AI That's just making mistakes a little
bit General capabilities are actually quite
human-like sometimes when we don't know the
answer to something we will just make up an
answer we will rarely say I don't know and
so uh there is a lot of human hallucination
in a conversation and sometimes we don't do
it on purpose should we be worried about AI
though that feels more and more human like
should AI have to identify itself as artificial
when it's interacting with us I think it's
a different kind of intelligence it is important
to distinguish output that's been provided
by a machine versus another human but we are
moving towards a world where we are collaborating
with these machines more and more and so output
will be hybrid all of the data that you're
training this AI on it's coming from writers
it's coming from artists how do you think
about giving value back to those people when
these are also people who are worried about
their jobs going away I don't know exactly
how we could work in practice that you can
sort of account for information created by
everyone on the internet I think they're definitely
going to be jobs that will be lost and jobs
that will be changed is AI continues to advance
and integrate in the workforce prompt engineering
is a job today that's not something that we
could have predicted think of prompt Engineers
like AI Whispers they're highly skilled at
selecting the right words to coax AI tools
into generating the most accurate and Illuminating
responses it's a new job born from AI That's
fetching hundreds of thousands of dollars
a year what are some tips to being an ace
prompt engineer you know it's this ability
to really develop an intuition for how to
get the most out of the model um how to prompt
it in the right ways give it enough context
for what you're looking for one of the things
that we talked about earlier was hallucinations
and these large language models not having
the ability to always be highly accurate so
I'm asking the model with a browsing plugin
to fact check this information and it's now
browsing the web so there's this report that
these workers in Kenya were getting paid two
dollars an hour to do the work on the back
end to make answers less toxic and my understanding
is this work is it can be difficult right
because you're reading text that might be
disturbing and trying to clean them up so
we need to use contractors sometimes to scale
we chose that particular contractor because
of their known safety standards and since
then we've stopped working with them but as
you said this is difficult to work and we
recognize that and we have mental health standards
and wellness standards that we share with
contractors I think a lot about my kids and
them having relationships with AI someday
how do you think about what the limits should
be and what the possibilities should be when
you're thinking about a child I think we should
be very careful in general with putting very
powerful systems um in front of more vulnerable
populations there are certainly checks and
balances in place because it's still early
and we still don't understand all the ways
in which this could affect people there's
all this talk about you know relationships
and AI like could you see yourself developing
a relationship with an AI
I'd say yes it's a reliable tool that enhances
my life makes my life better as we Ponder
the existential idea that we might all have
relationships with AI someday there's an AI
Gold Rush happening in Silicon Valley Venture
capitalists are pouring money into anything
AI startups hoping to find the next big thing
Reed Hoffman the co-founder of LinkedIn and
an early investor in Facebook knows a thing
or two about striking gold he was an early
open AI backer and is in a way trying to take
society's hand and guide us all through the
age of AI I mean gosh 12 years we've been
talking maybe longer that's awesome a long
time yes you have been on the ground floor
of some of the biggest Tech platform shifts
in history the beginnings of the internet
mobile do you think AI is going to be even
bigger I think so it builds on the internet
mobile cloud data all of these things come
together to make AI work and so that causes
it to be the crescendo the the addition to
all of us I mean one of the problems with
the current discourse is that it's too much
of the fear-based versus hope based imagine
a tutor on every smartphone for every child
in the world that's possible that's line of
sight from what we see with current AI models
today you coined this term Blitz scaling blitzkill
killing in its precise definition is prioritizing
speed over efficiency in an environment of
uncertainty how do you go as fast as possible
in order to be the first to scale does
it today does it and I think the speed at
which we will integrate it into our lives
will be faster than we integrated the iPhone
into our lives there's going to be a co-pilot
for every profession and if you think about
that that's huge and not professional activities
because it's going to write my kids papers
right right it's High School papers uh yes
although the hope is that in the interaction
with it they'll learn to create much more
interesting papers you and Elon Musk go way
back he co-founded openai with Sam Altman
the CEO of openai you and I have talked a
lot over the years about how you have been
sort of this node in the PayPal Mafia and
you can talk to everyone and maybe you disagree
but you are all still friends what did Elon
say that got you interested so early part
of the reason I got back in the AI and I was
part of sitting around the table in the crafting
of open AI was that Elon came in and said
look this AI thing is coming once I started
digging into it I realized that this pattern
that we're going to see the Next Generation
of amazing capabilities coming from these
computational devices and then one of the
things I had been arguing with Elon at the
time about was that Elon was constantly using
the word robocalypse which you know we as
human beings tend to be more easily and quickly
motivated by fear than my hope so you're using
the term robocalypse and everyone imagines
the Terminator and all the rest sounds pretty
scary it sounds very scary doesn't sound like
something we want yeah stop saying that because
because actually in fact the the the the chance
that I could see anything like a robot club
that's happening is so de minimis relative
to everything else so how you did come together
on open AI how did that happen I think it
started with Elon and Sam having a bunch of
conversations uh and then since I know both
of them quite well I got called in um and
I was like look I think this could really
uh make sense something should be the counterweight
to all of the natural work that's going to
happen within commercial Realms how do we
make sure that uh one company doesn't dominate
the industry but the tools are provided across
the industry so Innovation can benefit from
startups and all the rest it was like great
and let's do this thing open AI I did ask
chat GPT what questions I should ask you I
thought its questions were pretty boring yes
your answers were pretty boring too so we're
not getting replaced anytime soon but clearly
this is really struck a nerve there are people
out there who are going to fall for it yes
shouldn't we be worried about that okay so
everyone's encountered a crazy person who's
drunk off their ass at a cocktail party who
says really odd things or at least every adult
has and you know that's not like the world
didn't end right we do have to pay attention
areas or harmful likes for example someone's
depressed the thing about self-harm you want
all channels by which they could get in the
self-harm to be limited that isn't just chat
Bots that could be communities of human beings
that could be search engines you have to pay
attention to all the dimensions of it how
are we overestimating AI still doesn't really
do something that I would say is original
to an expert so for example one of the questions
I asked was how would Reid Hoffman make money
by investing in artificial intelligence and
the answer it gave me was a very smart very
well written answer that would have been written
by a professor at a business school who didn't
understand Venture Capital right so it seems
smart would it would would study large markets
would realize what products would be substituted
in the large markets would find teams to go
do that and invest in them and this is all
written very credible and completely wrong
the newest edge of the information is still
Beyond these systems billions of dollars are
going into AI my inbox is filled with AI pitches
last year it was crypto and web three how
do we know this isn't just the next bubble
I do think that the generative AI is the thing
that has the broadest Touch of everything
now which places are the right places to invest
I think those are still things we're working
out now obviously as Venture capitalists part
of what we do is we kind of figure that out
in advance you know years before other people
seeing coming um but I think that there will
be massive new companies built it does seem
in some ways like a lot of AI is being developed
by an elite group of companies and people
is that something that you see happening in
some ideal Universe you'd say for for a technology
that would impact billions of people somehow
billions of people should directly be involved
in creating it but that's not how any technology
anywhere anywhere in history gets built and
there's reasons you have to build it at speed
but the question is how do you get the right
conversations and the right issues on the
table so do you see an AI Mafia for me um
I definitely think that there is because you're
referring the PayPal Mafia of course I definitely
think that there's a network of folks who
have been deeply involved over the last few
years will have a lot of influence on how
the technology happens do you think AI will
shake up the big Tech hierarchy significantly
uh what it certainly does is it creates a
wave of disruption for example with these
large language models in search what do you
want do you want 10 Blue Links or do you want
an answer and a lot of search cases you want
an answer and a generated answer that's like
a mini Wikipedia page is awesome that's a
shift so I think we'll see a profusion of
startups doing interesting things this but
can the next Google or Facebook really emerge
if Google and Facebook or meta and apple and
Amazon are running the Playbook at Microsoft
do I think there will be another one to three
companies that will be the size of the five
big Tech Giants emerging possibly from AI
absolutely yes now does that mean that you
know um one of them is going to collapse no
not necessarily and it doesn't need to the
more that we have the better so what are the
next big five oh well that's what I'm we're
trying to invest in you're on the board of
Microsoft obviously you know Microsoft is
making a big AI push did you bring Satya and
Sam or have any role in bringing Satya and
Sam closer together because Microsoft obviously
has 10 billion dollars now in open AI um well
I think I could uh I probably have a you know
uh both of them are close to me and know me
and trust me well so I I think I I've helped
facilitate understanding and Communications
Elon left open AI years ago and pointed out
that it's not as open as it used to be he
said he wanted it to be a non-profit counterweight
to Google now it's a closed Source maximum
profit company effectively controlled by Microsoft
does he have a point well he's wrong on a
number of levels there um so one is it's run
by a 501c3 it is a non-profit but it does
have a for-profit part the commercial system
which is all carefully done is to bring in
capitalism support the non-profit mission
now get to the question of for example open
so um Dolly was ready for four months before
it was released why did it delay for four
months because it was doing safety training
it said well we don't want to have this being
used to create child sexual material we don't
want to have this being used or assaulting
individuals or or doing deep fakes so we're
not going to open source it we're going to
release it through an API so we can be seeing
what the results are and making sure it doesn't
do any of these harms so it's open because
it has open access to apis but it's not open
because it's open source there are folks out
there who are angry actually about open AIS
branching out from non-profit to four profit
is there a bit of a bait and switch there
the cleverness that Sam and everyone else
figured out is they could say look we can
do a Market Commercial deal where we say we'll
give you commercial licenses to parts of our
technology in various ways and then we can
continue our mission of beneficial AI the
AI graveyard is filled with algorithms that
got into trouble how can we trust open AI
or Microsoft or Google or anyone to do the
right thing well we need to be more transparent
but on the other hand of course our problem
exactly as you're alluding to is people say
well the AI should say that or shouldn't say
that we can't even really agree on that ourselves
so we don't want that to be litigated by other
people we want that to be a social decision
so how does this shake out globally we should
be trying to build the industries of the future
that's what's the most important thing and
it's one of the reasons why I tend to very
much speak against people like oh we should
be slowing down do you have any intention
of slowing down we've been very evocal about
these risks for many many years one of them
is acceleration and I think that's a significant
risk that we as a society need to Grapple
with building safe AI systems that are General
it's very complex it's incredibly hard so
what does responsible Innovation look like
to you you know like would you support for
example a federal agency like the FDA that
that's technology like it that's drugs having
some sort of trusted Authority that can audit
these systems based on some agreed upon principles
would be very helpful I've heard AI experts
talk about the potential for the good future
versus the bad future and the bad future there's
talk about this leading human extinction are
those people wrong there's certainly a risk
that um when we have these AI systems that
are able to set to their own goals they decide
that their goals are not aligned with ours
and they do not benefit from having us around
and could lead to human extinction that is
a risk I don't think this risk has gone up
or down from the things that have been happening
in the past few months I think it's certainly
been quite hyped and there is a lot of anxiety
around it if we're talking about the risk
for human extinction have you had a moment
where you're just like wow this is this is
big I think a lot of us at open AI um enjoying
because we thought that this would be the
most important technology that Humanity would
ever create but of course the risks on the
other hand are also pretty significant and
this is why we're here do open AI employees
still vote on AGI and when it will happen
I actually don't know what is your prediction
about AGI and how far away it really is we're
still quite far away from uh being at a point
where you know these systems can make decisions
autonomously um and discover new knowledge
but I think I have more certainty around the
Advent of having a powerful systems in our
future should we even be driving towards AGI
and do humans really want it advancements
in Society come from pushing human knowledge
now that doesn't mean that we should do so
in careless and Reckless ways I think there
are ways to guide these development versus
bring it to a screeching hold because of our
potential fears so the train has left the
station and we should stay on it that's one
way to put it
[Music]
[Music] um